Around a year back, I was working with Mozilla's [metrics] [metrics-team] team 
trying to extract insights from [user-feedback][input]. I am (slowly) compiling
my notes from that time. This is the first of a few posts on one of the
subproblems I was attacking: Inferring the language that the feedback was
written in. 

## Introduction

One way to model the problem of classifying languages is to assume that there
is an unknown engine which produces a stream of feedbacks using the following
process: It first flips a $L$ sided die to pick a language, it then writes the 
feedback based on a probabilistic model for that language. Our problem is to 
make some assumptions as to what sort of structure the different probabilistic 
models might have, (For example, Gaussian, binomial or multinomial models for
the language) and then _infer_ the parameters of the models from training data. 

Once this inference is done, _deciding_ the language that a new feedback coming
in might belong to is a mere matter of figuring out which of our
reconstructions of the engine's models fits the current feedback best. The
whole process is therefore split cleanly split into Inference and Decision stages 
(in contrast to how [discriminative classifiers][discriminative_wiki] work).

### Inference and Decision

Intuitively, we can expectG that a reliable estimate for the probability of a 
feedback being english to be the fraction of english feedbacks in the training
set. On the other hand, the language model is a whole another ball game. 


#### A simple language model

One approach is to imagine 
that the language model is a long vector where each element represents a unique
word in the vocabulary. The engine then _writes_ feedback by walking along the
vector and flipping coins to decide whether or not to decide whether that
particular word will be part of the feedback. Our job then is to figure out the
bias of the coins that were used. Again, intuitively, one would expect, say the
probability of "dog", in the english language to be reliably estimated by the
number of english documents containing the term "dog". 

{% flickr_set 72157634916054245 16 %}
